We've now got a fully functional user model.
I know riding out these interfaces and understanding that generic syntax is really nasty stuff, but
the good news is we really only had to do this the one time.
Now any time we start to create a model in the future, it's really just going to be kind of a copy
paste of what we already did inside of here.
So now that we've got our user model, we can get back on track with our sign up process.
As a reminder, any time someone makes a request to our sign up route handler, we're going to first
check and see if someone's already using that email address.
And if they are, we will respond with an error.
After that, if the email is not in use, we will make sure that we store the password with a hash password
or the user with the hash password, and eventually we will save that user to the database.
Let's go over to our sign up route handler and start to implement some of this stuff.
Inside my roots directory.
I'll find the signup file at the very top.
I'm going to immediately import the user model.
From up one directory models user or not user model, but just user by itself.
I'll then go down to my route handler.
Here it is right here.
Now, we've got some logic inside of here already around handling request validation.
That stuff is all good and we want to keep it.
But everything after it was really just some testing code.
So I'm going to delete the console, log the throw and the red send.
That entire database connection error thing was really just kind of a test anyways.
We're not going to use that inside this root handler anymore anyways, so I'm going to delete the import
statement for it at the very top of the file.
Okay.
So then back down here.
If we get past that initial request validation step, well then go through this workflow.
So the first thing we need to do is see if a user inside of our database already exists with that same
exact email.
So to check for that, we're really just going to do a query of our user collection and see if someone
has that matching email address.
I'm going to first pull the email.
Off of the wrecked body property.
All then define a new variable called existing user.
And I'm going to run a query over my user collection by using the user model.
So I'll say a weight user, find one with that same exact email address.
If we find another user with this email, then that user that we found inside of our database will be
assigned to this variable.
Otherwise, if we do not find someone at that email, existing user will instead be null.
So all we really have to do is check and see if this valid, assuming this variable is null.
If it is, that means we can create the user.
Otherwise, if it is not null, then we need to return early and send back an error to the user.
So inside of here, I'm going to say if existing user is defined.
Then.
I'll do a console.log that says.
Email in use.
I'm going to return early.
And for right now, I'm just going to send back an empty response.
We don't really have any way to test this just yet because we are not creating any users.
So I'm going to leave this as is for just a moment.
We're going to add in the ability to actually create a user and then we'll come back and add in some
better error handling code inside there.
Okay.
So if we get past that step in theory, we need to start to hash the password.
Now, hashing the password is a complicated little process and we've been doing a lot of really in-depth
stuff.
So for right now, we're going to very temporarily skip the step and go directly on to creating a new
user and saving them to our database.
So we are going to implement password hashing because you absolutely have to have that.
But very briefly, we're just going to skip down to actually creating the user.
So if we get past that step right there, we then need to create our user and save them to the database.
So for that, we're going to do a balanced user and remember how we create a new user document we call
user dot build.
And we're going to pass in the attributes for this user that we're trying to create.
So we'll pass in the email and the password.
We have not defined password inside of here.
Remember, password is on the body of the request.
We already did validation on that password during this earlier validation.
Step up here.
So in addition to pulling off email, I will also pull off password.
So we are building the user, just building them does not actually save them to the database.
To save them to the database, we have to do an A weight user save.
That will persist them to MongoDB.
After saving them to the database, we should send back to whoever made this request a cookie or a JSON
web token or something.
That's another step that we'll figure out in just a moment.
If right now, let's just respond to this request, say that the user was created and send back the
user model or the user document.
They'll do a rescue status of 201, which indicates that a record was created as opposed to a 200.
And I'll send back the entire user.
Yes.
This looks at least somewhat reasonable if right now.
Let's go ahead and try to do a little test.
I'm going to open up, postman.
I still have Postman Open from when we were working with it earlier.
So I'm making a post request to ticketing dev API users sign up.
I've got a header of content type application JSON.
My body is set to roar.
That sounds really awkward.
I've got a valid email, a valid password, and I've selected Jason over here as well.
So I'm going to go ahead and send in this request.
All right.
There we go.
So it looks like I have successfully created a user and sent them back to whoever made this request
in this case, our postman client.
So now, in theory, this user has been saved to our Mongo database.
We can now start to test out the workflow where we try to sign up with a duplicated email address.
Let's try to send this exact request once again.
Hopefully we will get back some kind of empty response that's going to tell us that sorry the user was
not created.
So if I try to send the exact same request, I get back an empty object.
And if I go to my terminal.
I'll see a console.log right there of email in use.
All right.
Well, let's say that this initial flow that we put together looks pretty good, but there's definitely
a couple of things we need to fix up.
We need to make sure that we hash that password.
You'll notice that when we sent a response back when a user was created.
So I'm going to put in a unique email right here and then send it.
When we sent the user back, the password was included, which we definitely do not want to do.
And if the email was already in use, we are sending back just an empty object which is not appropriate
as well though still a little bit of stuff to work on.
Let's start working on this in the next video.